docs/SRS.md, before:

# Software Requirements Specification
## For <project name>

Prepared by <author>  
<organization>  
<date created>  

Table of Contents
=================
* 1 [Introduction](#1-introduction)
  * 1.1 [Document Purpose](#11-document-purpose)
  * 1.2 [Product Scope](#12-product-scope)
* 2 [Product Overview](#2-product-overview)
  * 2.1 [Product Perspective](#21-product-perspective)
  * 2.2 [Product Functions](#22-product-functions)
  * 2.3 [Product Constraints](#23-product-constraints)
  * 2.4 [User Characteristics](#24-user-characteristics)
  * 2.5 [Assumptions and Dependencies](#25-assumptions-and-dependencies)
* 3 [Requirements](#3-requirements)
  * 3.1 [External Interfaces](#31-external-interfaces)
    * 3.1.1 [User Interfaces](#311-user-interfaces)
    * 3.1.2 [Hardware Interfaces](#312-hardware-interfaces)
    * 3.1.3 [Software Interfaces](#313-software-interfaces)
  * 3.2 [Functional](#32-functional)
  * 3.3 [Quality of Service](#33-quality-of-service)
    * 3.3.1 [Performance](#331-performance)
    * 3.3.2 [Security](#332-security)
    * 3.3.3 [Reliability](#333-reliability)
    * 3.3.4 [Availability](#334-availability)
  * 3.4 [Design and Implementation](#35-design-and-implementation)
    * 3.4.1 [Installation](#351-installation)
    * 3.4.2 [Distribution](#352-distribution)
    * 3.4.3 [Maintainability](#353-maintainability)

## 1. Introduction
> This section should provide an overview of the entire document

### 1.1 Document Purpose
Describe the purpose of the SRS and its intended audience.

### 1.2 Product Scope
Identify the product whose software requirements are specified in this document, including the revision or release number. Explain what the product that is covered by this SRS will do, particularly if this SRS describes only part of the system or a single subsystem. Provide a short description of the software being specified and its purpose, including relevant benefits, objectives, and goals. Relate the software to corporate goals or business strategies. If a separate vision and scope document is available, refer to it rather than duplicating its contents here.

## 2. Product Overview
> This section should describe the general factors that affect the product and its requirements. This section does not state specific requirements. Instead, it provides a background for those requirements, which are defined in detail in Section 3, and makes them easier to understand.

### 2.1 Product Perspective
Describe the context and origin of the product being specified in this SRS. For example, state whether this product is a follow-on member of a product family, a replacement for certain existing systems, or a new, self-contained product. If the SRS defines a component of a larger system, relate the requirements of the larger system to the functionality of this software and identify interfaces between the two. A simple diagram that shows the major components of the overall system, subsystem interconnections, and external interfaces can be helpful.

### 2.2 Product Functions
Summarize the major functions the product must perform or must let the user perform. Details will be provided in Section 3, so only a high level summary (such as a bullet list) is needed here. Organize the functions to make them understandable to any reader of the SRS. A picture of the major groups of related requirements and how they relate, such as a top level data flow diagram or object class diagram, is often effective.

### 2.3 Product Constraints
This subsection should provide a general description of any other items that will limit the developer’s options. These may include:  

* Interfaces to users, other applications or hardware.  
* Quality of service constraints.  
* Standards compliance.  
* Constraints around design or implementation.

### 2.4 User Characteristics
Identify the various user classes that you anticipate will use this product. User classes may be differentiated based on frequency of use, subset of product functions used, technical expertise, security or privilege levels, educational level, or experience. Describe the pertinent characteristics of each user class. Certain requirements may pertain only to certain user classes. Distinguish the most important user classes for this product from those who are less important to satisfy.

### 2.5 Assumptions and Dependencies
List any assumed factors (as opposed to known facts) that could affect the requirements stated in the SRS. These could include third-party or commercial components that you plan to use, issues around the development or operating environment, or constraints. The project could be affected if these assumptions are incorrect, are not shared, or change. Also identify any dependencies the project has on external factors, such as software components that you intend to reuse from another project, unless they are already documented elsewhere (for example, in the vision and scope document or the project plan).

## 3. Requirements
> This section specifies the software product's requirements. Specify all of the software requirements to a level of detail sufficient to enable designers to design a software system to satisfy those requirements, and to enable testers to test that the software system satisfies those requirements.

> The specific requirements should:
* Be uniquely identifiable.
* State the subject of the requirement (e.g., system, software, etc.) and what shall be done.
* Optionally state the conditions and constraints, if any.
* Describe every input (stimulus) into the software system, every output (response) from the software system, and all functions performed by the software system in response to an input or in support of an output.
* Be verifiable (e.g., the requirement realization can be proven to the customer's satisfaction)
* Conform to agreed upon syntax, keywords, and terms.

### 3.1 External Interfaces
> This subsection defines all the inputs into and outputs requirements of the software system.

#### 3.1.1 User interfaces
Define the software components for which a user interface is needed. Describe the logical characteristics of each interface between the software product and the users. This may include sample screen images, any GUI standards or product family style guides that are to be followed, screen layout constraints, standard buttons and functions (e.g., help) that will appear on every screen, keyboard shortcuts, error message display standards, and so on. Details of the user interface design should be documented in a separate user interface specification.

Could be further divided into Usability and Convenience requirements.

#### 3.1.2 Hardware interfaces
Describe the logical and physical characteristics of each interface between the software product and the hardware components of the system. This may include the supported device types, the nature of the data and control interactions between the software and the hardware, and communication protocols to be used.

#### 3.1.3 Software interfaces
Describe the connections between this product and other specific software components (name and version), including databases, operating systems, tools, libraries, and integrated commercial components. Identify the data items or messages coming into the system and going out and describe the purpose of each. Describe the services needed and the nature of communications. Refer to documents that describe detailed application programming interface protocols. Identify data that will be shared across software components. If the data sharing mechanism must be implemented in a specific way (for example, use of a global data area in a multitasking operating system), specify this as an implementation constraint.

### 3.2 Functional
> This section specifies the requirements of functional effects that the software-to-be is to have on its environment.

### 3.3 Quality of Service
> This section states additional, quality-related property requirements that the functional effects of the software should present.

#### 3.3.1 Performance
If there are performance requirements for the product under various circumstances, state them here and explain their rationale, to help the developers understand the intent and make suitable design choices. Specify the timing relationships for real time systems. Make such requirements as specific as possible. You may need to state performance requirements for individual functional requirements or features.

#### 3.3.2 Security
Specify any requirements regarding security or privacy issues surrounding use of the product or protection of the data used or created by the product. Define any user identity authentication requirements. Refer to any external policies or regulations containing security issues that affect the product. Define any security or privacy certifications that must be satisfied.

#### 3.3.3 Reliability
Specify the factors required to establish the required reliability of the software system at time of delivery.

#### 3.3.4 Availability
Specify the factors required to guarantee a defined availability level for the entire system such as checkpoint, recovery, and restart.

### 3.4 Design and Implementation

#### 3.4.1 Installation
Constraints to ensure that the software-to-be will run smoothly on the target implementation platform.

#### 3.4.2 Distribution
Constraints on software components to fit the geographically distributed structure of the host organization, the distribution of data to be processed, or the distribution of devices to be controlled.

#### 3.4.3 Maintainability
Specify attributes of software that relate to the ease of maintenance of the software itself. These may include requirements for certain modularity, interfaces, or complexity limitation. Requirements should not be placed here just because they are thought to be good design practices.

Commit message:

Added empty user guide. Further modified SRS.

docs/SRS.md, after:

# Software Requirements Specification
## For <project name>

Prepared by <author>  
<organization>  
<date created>  

Table of Contents
=================
* 1 [Introduction](#1-introduction)
  * 1.1 [Document Purpose](#11-document-purpose)
  * 1.2 [Product Scope](#12-product-scope)
* 2 [Product Overview](#2-product-overview)
  * 2.1 [Product Perspective](#21-product-perspective)
  * 2.2 [Product Functions](#22-product-functions)
  * 2.3 [Product Constraints](#23-product-constraints)
  * 2.4 [User Characteristics](#24-user-characteristics)
  * 2.5 [Assumptions and Dependencies](#25-assumptions-and-dependencies)
* 3 [Requirements](#3-requirements)
  * 3.1 [External Interfaces](#31-external-interfaces)
    * 3.1.1 [User Interfaces](#311-user-interfaces)
    * 3.1.2 [Hardware Interfaces](#312-hardware-interfaces)
    * 3.1.3 [Software Interfaces](#313-software-interfaces)
  * 3.2 [Functional](#32-functional)
  * 3.3 [Quality of Service](#33-quality-of-service)
    * 3.3.1 [Performance](#331-performance)
    * 3.3.2 [Security](#332-security)
    * 3.3.3 [Reliability](#333-reliability)
    * 3.3.4 [Availability](#334-availability)
  * 3.4 [Design and Implementation](#35-design-and-implementation)
    * 3.4.1 [Installation](#351-installation)
    * 3.4.2 [Distribution](#352-distribution)
    * 3.4.3 [Maintainability](#353-maintainability)

## 1. Introduction
> This section should provide an overview of the entire document

### 1.1 Document Purpose
Describe the purpose of the SRS and its intended audience.

### 1.2 Product Scope
Identify the product whose software requirements are specified in this document, including the revision or release number. Explain what the product that is covered by this SRS will do, particularly if this SRS describes only part of the system or a single subsystem. Provide a short description of the software being specified and its purpose, including relevant benefits, objectives, and goals. Relate the software to corporate goals or business strategies. If a separate vision and scope document is available, refer to it rather than duplicating its contents here.

## 2. Product Overview
> This section should describe the general factors that affect the product and its requirements. This section does not state specific requirements. Instead, it provides a background for those requirements, which are defined in detail in Section 3, and makes them easier to understand.

### 2.1 Product Perspective
Describe the context and origin of the product being specified in this SRS. For example, state whether this product is a follow-on member of a product family, a replacement for certain existing systems, or a new, self-contained product. If the SRS defines a component of a larger system, relate the requirements of the larger system to the functionality of this software and identify interfaces between the two. A simple diagram that shows the major components of the overall system, subsystem interconnections, and external interfaces can be helpful.

### 2.2 Product Functions
Summarize the major functions the product must perform or must let the user perform. Details will be provided in Section 3, so only a high level summary (such as a bullet list) is needed here. Organize the functions to make them understandable to any reader of the SRS. A picture of the major groups of related requirements and how they relate, such as a top level data flow diagram or object class diagram, is often effective.

### 2.3 Product Constraints
This subsection should provide a general description of any other items that will limit the developer’s options. These may include:  

* Interfaces to users, other applications or hardware.  
* Quality of service constraints.  
* Standards compliance.  
* Constraints around design or implementation.

### 2.4 User Characteristics
Identify the various user classes that you anticipate will use this product. User classes may be differentiated based on frequency of use, subset of product functions used, technical expertise, security or privilege levels, educational level, or experience. Describe the pertinent characteristics of each user class. Certain requirements may pertain only to certain user classes. Distinguish the most important user classes for this product from those who are less important to satisfy.

### 2.5 Assumptions and Dependencies
List any assumed factors (as opposed to known facts) that could affect the requirements stated in the SRS. These could include third-party or commercial components that you plan to use, issues around the development or operating environment, or constraints. The project could be affected if these assumptions are incorrect, are not shared, or change. Also identify any dependencies the project has on external factors, such as software components that you intend to reuse from another project, unless they are already documented elsewhere (for example, in the vision and scope document or the project plan).

## 3. Requirements
> This section specifies the software product's requirements. Specify all of the software requirements to a level of detail sufficient to enable designers to design a software system to satisfy those requirements, and to enable testers to test that the software system satisfies those requirements.

> The specific requirements should:
* Be uniquely identifiable.
* State the subject of the requirement (e.g., system, software, etc.) and what shall be done.
* Optionally state the conditions and constraints, if any.
* Describe every input (stimulus) into the software system, every output (response) from the software system, and all functions performed by the software system in response to an input or in support of an output.
* Be verifiable (e.g., the requirement realization can be proven to the customer's satisfaction)
* Conform to agreed upon syntax, keywords, and terms.

### 3.1 External Interfaces
> This subsection defines all the inputs into and outputs requirements of the software system.

#### 3.1.1 User interfaces
Define the software components for which a user interface is needed. Describe the logical characteristics of each interface between the software product and the users. This may include sample screen images, any GUI standards or product family style guides that are to be followed, screen layout constraints, standard buttons and functions (e.g., help) that will appear on every screen, keyboard shortcuts, error message display standards, and so on. Details of the user interface design should be documented in a separate user interface specification.

#### 3.1.2 Hardware interfaces
Note from Dr. Fridge: this section does not apply, since we're not dealing with hardware. I'm leaving it here for completeness. Just put something like "This software is web-based and does not have any hardware interfaces beyond those found in typical web servers."

Describe the logical and physical characteristics of each interface between the software product and the hardware components of the system. This may include the supported device types, the nature of the data and control interactions between the software and the hardware, and communication protocols to be used.

#### 3.1.3 Software interfaces
Describe the connections between this product and other specific software components (name and version), including databases, operating systems, tools, libraries, and integrated commercial components. Identify the data items or messages coming into the system and going out and describe the purpose of each. Describe the services needed and the nature of communications. Refer to documents that describe detailed application programming interface protocols. Identify data that will be shared across software components. If the data sharing mechanism must be implemented in a specific way (for example, use of a global data area in a multitasking operating system), specify this as an implementation constraint.

### 3.2 Functional
> This section specifies the requirements of functional effects that the software-to-be is to have on its environment.

### 3.3 Quality of Service
> This section states additional, quality-related property requirements that the functional effects of the software should present.

#### 3.3.1 Performance
If there are performance requirements for the product under various circumstances, state them here and explain their rationale, to help the developers understand the intent and make suitable design choices. Specify the timing relationships for real time systems. Make such requirements as specific as possible. You may need to state performance requirements for individual functional requirements or features.

#### 3.3.2 Security
Specify any requirements regarding security or privacy issues surrounding use of the product or protection of the data used or created by the product. Define any user identity authentication requirements. Refer to any external policies or regulations containing security issues that affect the product. Define any security or privacy certifications that must be satisfied.

#### 3.3.3 Reliability
Specify the factors required to establish the required reliability of the software system at time of delivery.

#### 3.3.4 Availability
Specify the factors required to guarantee a defined availability level for the entire system such as checkpoint, recovery, and restart.

### 3.4 Design and Implementation

#### 3.4.1 Installation
Constraints to ensure that the software-to-be will run smoothly on the target implementation platform.

#### 3.4.2 Distribution
Constraints on software components to fit the geographically distributed structure of the host organization, the distribution of data to be processed, or the distribution of devices to be controlled.

#### 3.4.3 Maintainability
Specify attributes of software that relate to the ease of maintenance of the software itself. These may include requirements for certain modularity, interfaces, or complexity limitation. Requirements should not be placed here just because they are thought to be good design practices.
